virtual Network

Network : in general network refers to the collection of computers, devices and systems that are interconnected to share resources, information and communicate with each other.

Virtual Network in azure is a logicall isolated network that allows azure resources to securly communicate with each other, to internet and to on-premises network.
Components:
1. Address space: a range of IP addresses. Azure will assign the next availabe ip address in address space to the resoures.
2. Subnet: it is the logical segmentaion of resources in address space.
3. Vnets are scoped to Region and Subscription. 

Vnet - Vnet Connection:
1. Peering
2. Vnet-Vnet Connection Gateway
3. ExpressRoute

1. Peering allows to connect one vnet to another. Once peered they appers as one.
Types of peering:
a. Vnet Peering: it allows to connecting the virtual networks in same region.
b. Global Peering: It allows to connecting to vnets in different regions.

2. Vnet-Vnet Connection Gateway allows vnets to communicate with eachother over public internet using VPN gateway.

Peering	                                  Vnet-Vnet Connection Gateway
By default no encryption	                Encrypted
Direct, using Private IP communication	  Over Public internet with VPM Gateway
Low Latency	                              High Latency
Can't connect with On-prem Vnet	          Can connect with On-Prem Vnet

3. ExpressRoute



IP Address: It is the address of resources in azure to communicate with each other.

Public IP Address: resources outside of azure can connect with azure resources by using public IP Address.
Private IP Address: This address is used to communicate azure resources internally.

IP Allocation Types:
1. Dynamic 2. Static

Dynamic Ip allocation: Azures assigns the next available IP address to the resources in the subnets address range. (Public IP Address)
Static Ip allocation: You can assign the any available IP address to resources in the subnets address range. (Public IP Address and Private IP Address)


Vnet Routing:
Routing traffic in different subnets in vnet is taken care by azure. We can override azure default routing by using the routing tables.

in destination ip address range we can provide subnet address space or 10.0.0.4/32(specifc VM only) or 0.0.0.0/0(any thing)

Network Interface: It is an interconnection between VM and Vnets. A VM must have atleast one NIC. Multiple NIC allows VM to connect with multple subnets.

Subnets:
it is the logical segmentaion of resources in address space. Initally designed to solving the shortage of IP addreses.
Why:: a) Locial divisions     b)  Improved network security   c) Improved network Performance

Azure DNS::

DNS is domain name service which is responisible for converting the URIs into IP addresses.
Azure DNS is a hosting service to manage and resolve the domain names for your azure resources.
Types:
Azure Public DNS: manageing the domain names that are vissible to the public over internet
Azure Private DNS: To manage the domain names that are not vissible to the pubilc over internet like within azure Vnets.

NSG: Network Security Group
It is used to define the rules to filter the incomming and out going traffic to and from azure resources.
for each rule, we need to specify the port, protocal, priority, action, source and destination.

ASG: Application Security Group
It is used to grouping the resources that have same security needs. So we can apply security rules more easily to these group when compared to indiviall.
for example, group all webservers.

Service Tags are to group the IP addresess to make it easy to apply security rules. These are managed by azure. we can't create or assign by our choice.




